# MODEL1102210001: Telesco2011_HER3ErbB3RTK_SignalingNetwork

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1102210001.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1102210001.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
**A multiscale modeling approach to investigate molecular mechanisms of pseudokinase activation and drug resistance in the HER3/ErbB3 receptor tyrosine kinase signaling network.**   
Telesco SE, Shih AJ, Jia F, Radhakrishnan R. _Mol Biosyst._ 2011
Jun;7(6):2066-80. [21509365](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21509365) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Multiscale modeling provides a powerful and quantitative platform for
investigating the complexity inherent in intracellular signaling pathways and
rationalizing the effects of molecular perturbations on downstream signaling
events and ultimately, on the cell phenotype. Here we describe the application
of a multiscale modeling scheme to the HER3/ErbB3 receptor tyrosine kinase
(RTK) signaling network, which regulates critical cellular processes including
proliferation, migration and differentiation. The HER3 kinase is a topic of
current interest and investigation, as it has been implicated in mechanisms of
resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibition (TKI) of EGFR and HER2 in the
treatment of many human malignancies. Moreover, the commonly regarded status
of HER3 as a catalytically inactive 'pseudokinase' has recently been
challenged by our previous study, which demonstrated robust residual kinase
activity for HER3. Through our multiscale model, we investigate the most
significant molecular interactions that contribute to potential mechanisms of
HER3 activity and the physiological relevance of this activity to mechanisms
of drug resistance in an ErbB-driven tumor cell in silico. The results of our
molecular-scale simulations support the characterization of HER3 as a weakly
active kinase that, in contrast to its fully-active ErbB family members,
depends upon a unique hydrophobic interface to coordinate the alignment of
specific catalytic residues required for its activity. Translating our
molecular simulation results of the uniquely active behavior of the HER3
kinase into a physiologically relevant environment, our HER3 signaling model
demonstrates that even a weak level of HER3 activity may be sufficient to
induce AKT signaling and TKI resistance in the context of an ErbB signaling-
dependent tumor cell, and therefore therapeutic targeting of HER3 may
represent a superior treatment strategy for specific ErbB-driven cancers.

**Note:**

This model is an extension of the model published by Schoeberl et al., 2009
[[PMID:19567914]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19567914)

.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


